[Music]
we are gathered here tonight to discuss
a political and philosophical
misconception so outrageously stupid so
ridiculous that i think every one of you
in your heart of hearts knows it must be
wrong knows that it must be refutable
and yet it may be that you lack the
vocabulary to talk through
rationally that you're not confident
you'll be able to convince someone from
the other side that you are in fact the
one on the right side
and uh
i find these things that my fellow
vegans struggle with very easy to reason
through very easy to talk about because
i devoted my life to the study of
politics and the mistake vegans make is
that they think about political issues
unpolitically
they think about these things as if they
have to do with the laws of nature as if
they have to do with the laws of logic
is it has to do with the laws of physics
as if they're part of the cosmology of
the earth itself the the order of nature
in a very ancient sense right it's like
no no no no we're actually talking about
political concepts and we have to engage
in this critique in a political way
my sweet i would like to turn off the
light that's over the the kitchen stove
i think it's screwing up my lighting
game here
okay
so we get a cameo appearance yeah show
it to heymudan if you don't know her
youtube channel she actually does have a
new youtube video today some of you guys
might not know that so it's actually a
good good opportunity to plug uh hey
mudan the youtube channel
yeah i'm gonna give them the link
but yeah she's got a new youtube video
up today and if you follow me on patreon
you would already have a link to that
okay
yeah that's about as much effort as i'm
willing to make with the lighting so if
you
the last video i made you could actually
see the color of my eyes and this one
you can't this is much you i have inky
black eyes here but it's a complete
illusion show it to james showed it to
nacho shout out to cool cruelty free
cosplay has joined us just imagine
all right so yeah we're getting into
getting into a topic that actually he
and i discussed from a totally different
angle years ago the last time he
appeared on my channel i forget how many
years ago that was but yeah these types
of issues have come up again again so
look there are two ways i can express
this and i can answer any questions in
the audience some of you may have dealt
with this problem uh in real life or in
your internet life i got a question from
a supporter on patreon which is the
reason for making this video now who
wrote in saying i could give this guy's
name but i don't know a supporter on
patreon wrote asking quote hi isil could
you delve deeper into the transhumanist
philosophy of david pierce on
redesigning the global ecosystem so
animals don't suffer in the wild he's
one of the first people to introduce
this idea in the vegan sphere and has
interviews and podcasts other vegans and
youtubers and published books going into
detail on this quote unquote can
biotechnology abolish suffering so let's
just be clear in terms of who my
opponents are in this
my opponents are vegans who want to live
on a planet where there are no sharks
they feel that we
as human beings
have come up with a philosophy that is
so morally superior to sharks that we
should eradicate all sharks in the name
of our philosophy all right that's
that's what we're talking about here
we're talking about shark genocide or
shark aside i'm going to trademark that
okay but it goes much further than that
and now as observed as that scene so
again as i began this video saying
before we had the lighting the lighting
change
before i called in my technician to fix
up the lights here
this is something most of you will just
be flabbergasted by whether you're at a
vegan conference an animal rights
conference or more likely you're talking
to a friend or relative yours who eats
meat maybe you're talking to your
parents or grandparents people who are
not vegan
and who are weirded out by this they say
well look i think you vegans are crazy
because i've heard you want to kill all
the sharks what
uh gary yourofsky is among the people to
call for this killing all the sharks
killing all the lions right in the name
of our morally superior uh philosophy
anyway as soon as as
so i just said this is the kind of
context where you might be confronted
with this and you might just respond by
saying that's crazy that's
self-evidently monstrously stupid but
you might like that you might be lacking
the vocabulary the familiarity of how
you're going to talk this through how
would you talk it through with someone
who actually believes in it and supports
it how will you talk it through with
someone who's your your enemy your
opponent someone who's actually arguing
with this okay but of course it's not
just
genociding all the sharks it's not just
genociding all the lions as soon as you
let yourself think it through coherently
there really ain't that much difference
between a shark and a dolphin
there ain't much difference between a
shark and a whale there ain't much
difference between a shark
and an octopus in fact you're talking
about eradicating the entire natural
world as you know it because none of it
lives up to this human created ethical
value of being vegan or being vegan
enough now of course there's another
step into absurdity taken here by people
like david pierce which is that they are
talking about not just destroying the
entire natural world but replacing it
with a uh a kind of series of
marionettes
a series of cybernetic androids or a
series of what you call cyborgs
like oh well we are morally offended
uh by alligators and crocodiles so so
it's just a given to these people that
they're gonna go ahead and eradicate all
of the uh alligators and crocodiles
because they're not they're not vegan
enough
um
but then you know there would be
something lacking in our lives
aesthetically right i mean you know when
we look out the window of our cottage in
florida onto the swamp we we feel
something was missing so naturally we
would therefore want to replace uh
creatures like alligators and crocodiles
and sharks and dolphins with some kind
of indescribably horrible human created
marionette cyborg robot or you know
biologically mod
bio-technologically modified uh animal
right like we've created a monster we
created a vegan shark a vegan uh
alligator etc
so that we can still enjoy the
appearance of these things without being
morally troubled by them without feeling
outraged so this is the this is the the
question i receive i'll finish reading
the question for the sake of it
he says quote i think you may be able to
provide a unique and meaningful critique
i haven't already come across if we can
do something about the perpetual and
immense suffering nature brings
shouldn't we do so question mark my
reply to this in text form was just one
word long
bruh
i could drop the mic right here or just
end the video but let's keep going for
another hour shall we how much time you
guys need from my perspective this is
actually a simple problem with a
relatively simple solution
um
so look
i i am going to talk as a president so
this video i'm going to talk about
politics i'm going to explain to you
that the main problem vegans have in
reasoning these three things through
talking about them in a way that's
coherent and really sane is that they
think about political issues in an
unpolitical way in an almost
cosmological way they think they're
talking about the order of nature when
they're not they're talking about
politics but uh as a preamble here
i'm going to address the implicitly
utilitarian aspect of the argument now
i've made many videos
specifically kind of debunking
utilitarianism i can't remember anyone
ever
debating or disputing this with me i did
have utilitarians who responded just
with kind of mute astonishment like how
can you possibly not support
utilitarianism people basically got in
touch with me and say oh but you must
you must believe in you must believe in
utilitarianism just like santa claus you
know what i mean uh utilitarianism is an
incredibly easy philosophy to overturn
and it's much more dangerous because
people tend currently in the year 2021
people tend to be unaware of the extent
to which
it's implicitly folded into
other political philosophies other
political moral
you know arguments uh so i would compare
this to um
the difference between growing up with
parents who are communists
and growing with parents who have no
particular ideology whatsoever it
doesn't have a name what they believe in
but they drive a ford 150 truck they
watch ice hockey they watch american
football they eat hamburgers uh they
quote the king james bible like
let's say they don't even identify as
christian they're just they just
participate in a whole bunch of
flotsam and jetsam from mainstream
culture they have an ideology with no
name well if you grow up with parents
who are communists you know what they
are you know what they believe in you
know how they define their own morality
and worldview and philosophy and
politics you can grow up you can analyze
what your parents are teaching you you
can come to the conclusion this is wrong
you can reject it and you can start
writing your own philosophy or choosing
your own philosophy and start living
your own life right in a lot of ways
that's easier to do
than to look at your parents who don't
represent any particular ideology they
have an ideology with no name they just
have a kind of lifestyle you know and
and really pick out what it is that's
wrong what is the limits
you know what
sitting and watching a baseball game for
four hours this is terrible like you
know then it is it's there may be
ruining your life you know what
you know my father's excuses for eating
yogurt for breakfast don't make sense
really i'm sorry i grew up being taught
that yogurt was the healthiest thing you
could possibly eat it's complete
nonsense you know it doesn't have a name
it's not a clearly enunciated ideology
it's not something you can easily put
into its own category to question
cross-examine challenge and then come to
new conclusions whereas if your parents
strongly identify with a clear ideology
a clear political philosophical or
religious kind of theory then it's
easier for you growing up to identify
that challenge and debunk it or
you know you may choose to embrace it
but you'll embrace it with some some
more mature awareness of what it really
is not just what your parents or pastors
uh taught you about it so in this way uh
utilitarianism is especially menacing
not as a clearly named ideology unto
itself but the way in which it becomes
an
an unexamined part of the unexamined
life it gets folded into the dough the
leaven of so many other political
philosophies in our time now
at a very basic fundamental level what
is it that these people believe in they
believe in minimizing suffering right
they believe in the most fundamental
tenet of utilitarianism going back to
jeremy bentham et cetera okay i do not
believe
in minimizing suffer i've made videos
stating this directly and again most of
the response i get from utilitarians is
really just gasping
in astonishment okay let me tell you a
story
i met a woman who worked as a caretaker
for the disabled
and
she helped to take care of a man sure
this was paid for by the government in
canada by the provincial government not
the federal government she paid to take
care of a man who was both blind
and death
from birth
the only way he could communicate with
the outside world and how he
communicated with her when she went to
take care of him
was by holding his hand flat
and she could make sign language
on his hand so you know normally signing
languages young people who are deaf but
they can see this guy can't hear and he
can't see
and she could communicate with him kind
of letter by letter word by word okay
from the day he was born he was taken
care of
bottomless budget by the government of
canada he's never had to work any job
he did receive education that's why it's
possible to communicate with him someone
very patiently got him to be able to
communicate in sign language in this
limited slow way you know
he has basically had a team of servants
taking care of him in an institution
since the day he was born until the day
he dies he has never experienced any of
the psychological anguish i've had in my
life he's never experienced any of the
ambition i've had in life he's never
experienced the passion the sorrow the
suffering i've been through terrible
sorrow and suffering my life unspeakable
agony you know and and the greater your
aspirations the more terrible the
disappointments are to live through this
one
do you think i would have been preferred
to be born
blind and deaf
and let's be specific not blind and deaf
in afghanistan
do you think i would have been prefer to
be born
and live that man's life to have a team
of servants taking care of me
to never have to cook a meal in my life
to never have to earn money to buy food
you never have to worry about the food i
there's just a team of servants taking
care of him in a special institute for
the
profoundly disabled
from the day he's born until the day he
died they answer every question the
woman i spoke to she was this special
caregiver who took him on outings this
is all the canadian governments all
taxpayers money that's a beautiful thing
in some ways but it's completely real
she would actually take him out for
example and everything she told me about
was to help him choose the clothes you
wanted her to take him to a shopping
mall and he would feel
and try on clothes before deciding what
goes about and she would have to
describe to him what these clothes are
he's been blind and deaf since birth
this would i'm sure was the highlight of
his week it was probably one of the most
interesting things and he would have to
try to visualize in his imagination i
mean to what extent does he even
understand
what clothing is or what our society is
i mean i don't i don't know i don't know
this guy but obviously his his degree of
comprehension of the world if you
think
the meaning of life
is minimizing
suffering
okay
you think it's better to be born blind
and deaf
than it is to see and hear and get out
in this world and see and hear all the
wonderful things that i've done
in my life okay i just say you know
briefly i'm gonna get choked up talk
about this you know i remember the day
i i set foot on the mekong river the
first time i got to the banks of the
mekong river and
i put my hand in it rather than my foot
but you know and i i it's just this
indescribable feeling i couldn't believe
i'd lived long enough that he i had i
had made it to the mekong river was just
something i never thought i would see in
my life and having been through what
i've been through in the years before i
i really didn't think i would live long
enough to see this site you know what i
mean just nicely
it's just a river guys
i mean the mekong river it is just
another river you know but what does it
mean to me it's connected to this
history of study it's connected to this
politics it's connected the aspirations
i had in my life at that time it's
connected to a whole bunch of things i
was kind of rebelling against and
working for it was so meaningful for me
to to just get there and be there and
stand on the mekong river and by the way
in the months and years that followed
the mekong river became a completely
normal part of my life i mean you know i
rode my bicycle along it if not every
day every week of course it became a
banal
everyday fixture in my life but there
was this amazing sense just to see it
just to be there now i'm using this
example intentionally you know the
mekong river wouldn't have meant
anything to me without all of this other
suffering that's attached to it you know
it's like this but it's specific it's
knowing the history of war it's knowing
about the bomb craters it's knowing
about the unspeakable you know uh uh
history of conflict the rise and fall of
communism the rise and fall of tarabata
buddhism there's all this
all this meaning you know the water
itself is meaningless it's it's no
different from any other any other river
you could uh you could drag your fingers
through or dip your toes into you know
but
you know i'm there i'm reading about and
studying the history of mass murder
under the khmer rouge i'm visiting piles
of human skulls and all this you know
this is tremendous and even just seeing
the jungle and anyway being there being
that environment okay you are you gonna
tell me that's not worth doing
are you gonna tell me that what's
meaningful and what's worthwhile is to
minimize
suffering to avoid suffering and
inevitably we come to the conclusion
as these people are proposing if you
embrace this principle that what life is
about is minimizing suffering well then
why should sharks
exist at all and i am asking you
fundamentally are you and i
such worthless sharks are you and i so
much better or so much worse in our own
way than sharks and alligators is there
no point in the lives of uh of
bloodthirsty predators such as you and i
my dear viewer or should we really be
done away with and there's no doubt that
this same line of reasoning uh if you
think you can replace
the bloodthirsty alligator with some
kind of uh mechanical
cyborg
vegan alligator do you think these
people would stop short of doing that to
human beings do you think they would
stop short of doing that to your own
shoulder and their grandchildren that
they should modify
human beings to have an anodyne
existence and existence without any
suffering without any fear without any
risk without exactly these films that we
ourselves also become mirror props
mirror marionettes
right you know what i'm saying
so that we also can live in this uh you
know in this painting
um that's been conjured up
lacking
you know the color of black it's lacking
the shades of gray you know what would
life be without death you know let's
let's be real here guys you know and
what what would any of this stuff mean
without the the suffering that that
surrounds it so it's ridiculous you know
you can ask you the same question it's
interesting you know how different is
when you're thinking about yourself you
think about your children
i just told you i'd rather be able to
see and hear
even if it means i have to go work at
mcdonald's turn a living which is
entirely plausible you guys don't know
how bad my financial situation is but
it's tough for me
it is quite plausible that season three
of a balacial is gonna be you guys
watching me live stream sitting on the
back steps of my of the mcdonald's where
i have a day job i may be going on to
doing some very humble work and i'll
love it i'll still love my life right
guys just saying you know i hope you'll
be there with me when i'm live streaming
from mcdonald's or something i've
applied for some really humble jobs i
applied for that terrible job at the
airport terrible job at the hospital
whatever just you know i still even if
the next chapter of my life is working
at mcdonald's or some other minimum wage
up guys
i'm committed i would prefer to be able
to see and hear and endure all this
suffering plenty of which is
psychological in nature rather than
directly physical right you know
terrible suffering of being separated
from my own daughter
these sorts of things you know not
direct physical suffering only
i i'm gonna stick with this two eyes two
ears thing that i'm on okay what about
if it's your son what about if it's your
daughter
if you had a choice
would you disable would you [ __ ] your
own son or your own daughter so that
they would live a life without suffering
would you choose to have your son or
your daughter
live in that hospital with a team of
servants to take care of their every
whim i know i wouldn't i want my sons
and daughters i want all of you in the
audience i want all of you i want you to
go out and experience suffering okay i
want you to pursue a life that involves
and includes
meaningful suffering not meaningless
suffering and then we get into the whole
discussion about what is the meaning of
life and what does it mean to lead a
meaningful life
which i've already done so many videos
on right like i also don't want you to
spend your whole life uh being in video
game competitions the competition to be
the greatest video game player
that involves a certain kind of
suffering and you know and to me i've
got to say look i think that's a lot
less meaningful than doing something
else with your life and that might
involve more suffering you know like but
i think you should embrace the path
that's more meaningful and uh and
involves more suffering
um okay so anon comments quote it's very
easy to exalt the meaning extracted from
suffering when you have never been shot
in a war or burnt at the stake and are
instead the person symbolically
contemplating these things well anon i
notice for example you do not use your
real name or your real face
fascinating
i think i think this is hinting at the
real difference in you and me and on
i think you're a coward and i'm not
and i think you haven't read the history
of people being burned to the stake
people being shot in the front and
people will be shot back i need to tell
you something it's guys like me who make
world history and it's guys like me who
go smiling to their graves and who
aren't afraid to get shot and who aren't
afraid to be burned at the stake and or
even proud of ourselves okay it's the
world belongs to people like me and if
you are one of these cowards whether
you're a utilitarian or not if that's
who you are if that's you
which which i'm guessing because i
noticed why don't you use your this is
my government name homie you can look me
up in the phone book anyone can come to
my doorstep
okay call me i i take risks in my life
i'm the same dude who went out to
cambodia and went out of the laos this
stuff in my small way in everything i'm
doing even on this youtube channel right
now yeah my boldness shows i'm ready to
live and i'm ready to die but no man
it's just not the case that everyone's a
coward you may be a coward you may be
afraid to fight and die of war i signed
up to join the army the only reason i
couldn't join the army was that i
couldn't give the addresses of all of my
brothers and sisters my father had nine
kids so i'm just saying i said look i
can't fill this out it's the only reason
i didn't go to fight isis in the last
war okay i literally was disqualified
for paperwork reasons ridiculous but
it's true and by the way my father
doesn't have the regret i couldn't i
couldn't ask my dad you know the mailing
addresses of all your own children
because he doesn't or he's deceased now
but he didn't at the time
but no no i'm sorry you were talking to
someone and i got bad news for you and
on you may not go to reddit groups
really go with me
the sad fact is people like me are
normal and if you read the history of
any century in any culture you're going
to figure out how normal we are and
that's why
human history
has the body count that it has put it
that way
i was just reading so there's a little
bit of a direction just reading um i
haven't yet finished the autobiography
of uh benjamin franklin
and i mean that guy's remembered for so
many things but people forget that he
was involved in combat himself with no
training with no preparation he led uh i
believe 560 men
uh in arms in a combat this is not in
the revolutionary war not in the civil
war this was fighting against the french
um you know alongside the british it's
an earlier war he had he had all kinds
of direct experience with people being
shot and killed and massacred and
burning down villages and and this kind
of stuff he lived he lived through all
that too and i mean he was a publisher
now he was a you know
sorry you know
i don't know if i can quite call him an
intellectual but he he was in the book
trade all his life from from very early
teenage years he was a printmaker and
and publisher you know um that those
kind of guy was but no i mean it's it's
not uncommon that kind of heroism you
know
people rise to the occasion people are
willing to throw themselves into
tremendous danger and suffering
including in long centuries where there
were no painkillers and there really was
no surgery or surgery was
surgery was more likely to kill you than
help you you know what standards of
medical care were abysmally low no i'm
sorry homie but there's something
abnormal about you and men always been
willing to fight to the death over a
point of honor and a duel and all these
other things and you see that you see
that perennial side of human nature uh
again and again you know
do do do
do all right so anyway somebody's
bringing this back to buddhism cruelty
free cosplay says quote the most basic
tenet of buddhism life is suffering
everyone has to start from the self and
evident truth and build from there well
you know i do like that
catchphrase from buddhism the original
pali is more like all this is suffering
rather than actually saying life is
suffering but i mean i think the
philosophical point we want to make is
instead to live is to suffer right
open that out for you which is not i
mean just saying this is not really the
buddhist
tenet and implicit in that formulation
is the idea that if you do a lot of
living you're going to do a lot of
suffering like more living is more
suffering and maybe if you're living
less like the example of the the blind
and deaf man or something or if you're
just someone who stays indoors and plays
video games you're maybe kind of doing
less living but you're also doing uh
less uh suffering and maybe also when
you talk about having aspirations having
uh
ambitions that bring you far afield uh
so on and so forth
uh so nacho you asked this in the other
live stream but you seem to be missing a
very basic point so i'm not going to
digress in this life but nacho asks uh
uh
appropriate enough her name is nacho
business because it's not your business
not your ass quote
i hate to be nitpicky but you've
recently said that you would consider
working uh at a that you consider
working at a liquor store immoral so how
do you justify a job males so i don't so
you're missing the point i am not saying
that working at mcdonald's would be
moral i'm saying it'd be immoral it's
exactly an example of something evil and
terrible one might have to do is survive
i'm not i'm not it's the opposite of
justifying saying here's something
terrible i might have to do i mean so i
don't know how you're missing the point
no no and morally if i could do anything
else and do something else instead sure
but no i think it's totally immoral to
work at a liquor store i think it's
totally immoral to kill animals for
money
but you know uh people do terrible
things sometimes they do terrible things
for terrible reasons and so no i'm
really directly saying look guys i may
be in a situation where i have to do
something uh very immoral and unpleasant
and
so thus i use these kinds of examples
that's all oh it's just grounding this
uh in that autobiographical reality uh
hormone
um
[Music]
okay
so
i said openly at the uh
at the start of the video
oh sorry a lot of other interesting
avenues to take this conversation down
coming up in the coming up in the the
the chat
um
i think the main advantage i have over
my fellow vegans especially people in
this generation 2021
is just that i'm very good at talking
about politics as politics like in this
life you have to kind of say to people
look
what's political let's talk about
politically and what's not political
let's recognize as not political and
talk about not politically like
sometimes we are talking about the laws
of physics or something sometimes we are
talking about
nature or evolution as such as we're
talking about the sciences or
things that are merely factual and are
outside of the spec the sphere of
politics um however yes i do think in
general that politics is the queen of
the sciences and that when you really
understand politics
there's a sense in which you understand
everything and when you don't understand
politics it's really impossible for you
to articulate or reason through
practically anything anything of social
importance uh to be sure
now
what is it
that some vegans are saying
when they make the claim that human
beings ought to impose their own
morality on bears on sharks on
alligators on lions they take the
further step
of saying the human beings should impose
their morality on these other animals
even if that entails human beings
exterminating all of those animals so
they cease to exist on planet earth so
that the food chain has changed forever
so that ecology as we know it is changed
by by hunting these animals to
extinction so ironically they're
endorsing hunting animals in the name of
veganism which you know again this is
part of why most people just reacted
this is self-definitely observed but as
the question wrote and said there are
other people who are trying to make it
seem plausible by instead of talking
about killing the animals we're using
some advanced biotechnology to make this
make this dream a reality um
so i have i have talked about this on
the youtube channel before but maybe
it's good to have one video that really
just just pins this down and speaks
about it directly
and precisely okay what you are talking
about doing
is policing
it's not a scientific concept it's not a
natural concept it's not a cosmological
concept it's a political concept okay
what is policing
at its most basic
policing
is imposing the will of one person on
another
imposing the will of one person on
millions of people or quite possibly
imposing the will of millions of people
on a small minority
of people
let's say you live in a democracy
and there is a referendum
and the majority of people decide that
they are going to make it illegal
for muslim women to wear head scarves
maybe the same majority of people vote
in a referendum and they make it illegal
to carry out female circumcision for
example they may carry out a whole
series of repressive measures that
primarily or exclusively impact the
muslim minority living in that culture
so what is policing
policing is the will of these millions
of people
being imp being imposed on some number
of thousands of people i don't know in
our hypothetical but i'm just saying
it's a large number of people
they voted on this it's their will it's
being enforced on smaller people now
conversely
you could have a kingdom where just one
person
the king let's say he decides the king
wakes up one day and says you know what
a lot of people when they're young get
tattoos that they never
think through properly
10 years later they regret it in life
this is a big social problem and the
king says you know what from now on you
cannot get a tattoo until you're 30
years old it's illegal to give anyone a
tattoo when they're a teenager in their
20s only when you're 30 years old can
you give it to you
one man decided this he wrote this law
and then everyone's got to live with it
how is the will of the king enforced on
millions of people policing
all right this is at its most basic at
its most fundamental
what policing is and means right
um
so
whether it is one king or a council of
people like a parliament like a senate
you know small number of people making
the law or you have a referendum and
seventy percent of the population many
millions of people uh you know vote on
this or whatever regardless
somebody some number of people decide
that human morality is going to be
imposed on animals that's policing right
now already we have what's hinted at
here we're kind of error in
categorical thinking so
i'm getting a lot of comments so i'm
going to i don't think i'm going to
forget where i'm at here so i'm going to
return to this issue of fundamentally uh
what is police say well i pick it up
he's like i do want to read your your
comments guys
i'm trying to sort of make a note
cruelty free cosplay says quote vegan
gains argument would fit in perfectly
with every rancher who wants to see
every wolf poisoned and hunted basically
honda extinction basically to
exterminate wolves how dare they kill
and eat my helpless cows on my helpless
farm
yeah
uh michael harvey says quote vegans are
generally hyper-political and have
reputation for being annoyingly radical
uh probably because of that link so
michael i disagree
i think the problem with veganism
precisely is that they don't regard what
is political as political
so let's give you an example one of the
most common arguments made for veganism
is that it's natural
no it's not it's ridiculous they will
make the argument that we are evolved to
be vegan or specifically that were
evolved to be frugivores fruitarian and
then that it's a kind of crime against
nature for you to eat meat it's
completely ridiculous now i understand
why it's gratifying no no this is an
ethical decision this is a social and
political movement and it has as much or
as little justification as any other
social or political movement now i would
say just disclose my bias i like black
people and i like gay people i'm
pro-black and i'm pro-gay i have never
once made an argument
like
in favor of
black rights or gay rights on the
argument that they are natural or it's
due to evolution like we're evolved to
embrace
gay people and treat them well and give
them equal rights or you know the people
of different
that's ridiculous to me this is
political i mean this is real politics
let's let's face up to it you know and
around the world and throughout history
most societies have been intolerant to
most people most of the time the most
trivial of differences imaginable have
brought about unspeakable intolerance
meaning catholic versus protestant
anyone today can say what the [ __ ]
what's the difference in catholic and
brought us in are you kidding me you
know um portuguese against spanish do
you have any idea how hard the
portuguese fought against the spanish
you know in new orleans and so on you
know well the difference meant a lot to
them at the time
they were willing to fight and die for
that difference you know again from the
perspective today of someone from japan
or china they'd say look what's the
difference between spain and portugal
and why do you have a why why do you
have these words oh what's the
difference between northern ireland and
southern ireland guys from a chinese
perspective or a japanese thing they
were willing to fight in that point so
no um
you know my point is
i think that veganism would be less
radical if it were more political if it
were more overtly self-consciously you
know like cognitively political as
opposed to suppressing these these
political uh issues and and trying to uh
trying to treat them as like
cosmological
facts you know as if as if they're part
of the makeup of of human nature or or
nature uh with a capital land meaning uh
the world as it was created or of course
they're also religious delusions you
know believing that veganism is the will
of god
yeah i guess you'd have to say for most
of human history
um
the two most popular ways to try to make
politics unquestionable to make you know
political authority decisions made by
political authorities unquestionable
it's either to hide behind the mask of
religion or to hide behind the mask of
science as i write about my book
currently in the 21st century we've seen
this other very strange delusion about
the law itself that things can't be
questioned just because they're a law or
just because they're in a constitution
as if that's something different than
just a decision made by one person at
one time that was written down on a
piece of paper there are many pages
written uh written about that in my book
but um
uh you know the this strange pattern of
thought we have that things become
unquestionable when they're called
science when they're called religion and
the reason why we don't want to
admit that it's political is that
whatever is political is questionable
any decision we make i mean we can we
can have a referendum and people decide
to make uh abortion completely illegal
and then ten years later you have
another referendum and they decide to
make abortion completely legal actually
probably one of the best examples of
that would be countries that have
flip-flopped on the legalization of
prostitution very often
people have the idealistic notion that
they can completely legalize and
liberate prostitution and then they live
with the consequences for a few years
like
let's
let's have another referendum let's see
what percentage of people still want to
live with this once you know
uh once you know prostitution has taken
over a large part of the city
yeah
okay um
so the the delusion that these people
are indulging in
is that they can and should
uh police the wilderness
uh forcing you know these human created
values onto
uh
sharks
dolphins so and so forth even if it
means obliterating you know the entire
food chain destroying ecology as we know
it in the name of this ideal
this ideal that seems to matter more
than the teacher itself or
or what have you now
i've been kind of hinting at this
repeatedly in this video
what is the point of policing to use
nacho's favorite word what is the
justification for policing i don't i
don't normally talk in terms of
justifying things i think it's very
misleading in english what we what we do
and don't mean by by justify or saying
something is justified um
to give an example you know
if you have an atheist majority in a
country
modern atheist democratic majority and
they are getting into policing the
morality of the muslim minority in the
country so this is happening right now
in many countries in europe
different places around the world
happening in some parts of china
although without the democracy
unfortunately with only the chinese idea
of democracy okay what is the
justification anyone can argue back and
both left-wing and right-wing people
argue against this there are right-wing
libertarians and there are left-wing
bleeding hearts and so on who say well
these people have their own culture
why don't you just let it
let them do it their own way you know
they have their own marriage customs
they have their own ceremonies their
their own music they have their own
costume their own style of dress why you
know if they want to cut off part of
their dick in this ceremony called
circumcision why don't you just let them
do things their way why don't you just
pretend that our laws can't and
shouldn't apply to them let them carry
on you know in their own way now this
question is normally asked insincerely
and it's normally answered instantly but
i want to answer it really sincerely i
want to talk about what is the point
of policing okay
the justification for sober people
policing drug addicts
is entirely based on a claim about their
human potential okay the reason why i
don't want you to become a heroin addict
is because i have a definite notion of
who it is you could be and should be
right now most of you if
today with facebook you could really
look this up
think back to the classroom full of
people you graduated high school with
right how many of them are dead today
i'm assuming i have a middle-aged
audience some of you are watching this
you're 18 you're like hey
i just graduated two weeks ago
it's true i do i do some teenage viewers
okay all right if you're over 30 years
old how many of the people you graduated
from high school with are dead today how
many of them are dead due to drug use or
drug overdose and how many of them are
alive but have completely ruined their
lives with drug use they've completely
rotted their brains or whatever they've
frittered away
fritter is not quite the right verb here
they have squandered their human
potential with drugs and alcohol okay
the justification for the reason for the
point of me policing you whether i'm the
king or the dictator or whether we have
a democracy where it's the majority of
people voting in a referendum the
fundamental reason for policing is that
you have the potential
to be something better to do something
and you are going to lose that potential
it's going to be snuffed out if i allow
you to become a heroin addict when
you're 16 years old you're never gonna
get there okay
there is a kind of potential
that a woman has
that is snuffed out by allowing her to
have her clitoris removed in what is
called
female circumcision okay there is a kind
of human potential that is snuffed out
when women are deprived of the
opportunity to attend high school and
university because they're part of a
religion that wants them to just get
married
the minute they're physically old enough
to do so and that that puts them into a
veil and gives them this operation and
deprives them of ever having an
education or career right and guess what
guys
none of this relies on anything as
certain as science or the laws of nature
or evolution it's all political
okay all of it meaning there's
ultimately in a sense
no right or wrong
right like from the perspective of the
people of saudi arabia we are guilty of
a great injustice by depriving people of
the freedoms
freedoms they want to have within their
own religious and cultural tradition
right and vice versa we would
perceive ourselves as being deprived of
the freedoms we would value if we had to
go and live in saudi arabia right but
the justification the point of policing
ultimately is a claim made about
potential and i will make the further
statement that potential ultimately its
significance is intellectual in
character okay
i would just say it is not
uh your potential to smell a flower a
purely sensual experience that justifies
this it actually has to do with the
growth of the the human mind and
understanding ultimately that justifies
one kind of repression or another um
i'm opposed to
marijuana
everyone in this audience right now i'm
just gonna encourage you to quit smoking
marijuana never smoke marijuana again if
you own marijuana right now in your
apartment
flush it down the toilet start living a
better life tomorrow morning as a result
kids it's my position number one
some people
are dying of cancer
some people have particular symptoms
either caused by the cancer itself
or by the therapy they're receiving such
as chemotherapy they're getting chemical
treatments and different kinds of
invasive okay that are horrendously
painful i have been told
and i am willing to believe that
marijuana
can be used to treat the physical pain
as a painkiller and has fewer negative
side effects than other painkillers for
some of these people who are dying of
cancer great
smoke marijuana every day
you're gonna die two weeks from now
what is the point
of me policing your
drug habit if you are gonna be dead two
weeks from now
you see you see how that changes it's
subtle but it's not [ __ ] subtle at
all it's the most obvious thing in the
world and once you've seen it you can't
unsee it the justification
for me oppressing you whether it's the
king oppressing you or the
in a democracy the majority oppressing
the minority or
in a parliamentary system an elite
minority oppressing the majority the
justification ultimately has to based on
your positive potential and guys whether
you know it or not basically in every
western country in the world when
someone is on their death bed when
they're only going to live for a few
more weeks or when doctors assume that
they're given unlimited quantities of
all kinds of
basically of heroin and other opiates
they're somewhere because nobody cares
and literally there are people who die
they don't even know it they die a drug
addict because they've been pumped up
with painkillers their last several
weeks of life and you know if they did
miraculously recover they'd have to quit
this drug because the doctors have the
attitude well
they might as well the last few weeks in
that hospital bed might as well make it
easy on
and nobody cares there's absolutely no
political discourse about that
palliative palliative care last few
weeks of life to what extent people
should should be robbed of the pain and
sorrow and the experience of of suffer
right okay so we're making a claim based
on your potential your intellectual
potential your human potential okay
the shark
has absolutely
no intellectual potential above and
beyond exercising its evolved natural
faculties to hunt and kill and meet and
lay eggs that's it
okay if you relieve the shark
of its duty
to hunt and kill by providing it every
day with an ingeniously devised vegan
sandwich
you go every day out in your canoe
and you feed the shark a vegan sandwich
that the most brilliant scientists have
designed to appease the hunger of the
sharks so that it no longer has to hunt
what do you think you are liberating the
shark to do
is it now going to write that novel it
was working on
you know there is no other nature there
is no other capacity right there is no
further horizon there is no intellectual
development possible for the shark it
can only be the best shark it can be it
cannot imitate a human being in virtue
okay it can't cultivate anything
intellectually and indeed i think with
most predatory species i don't know this
about sharks there are some predatory
species where if you give them food this
way if human beings relieve them they no
longer have the need to hunt because
they're being fed some of them will just
become completely inert some of them
will just become lazy they'll do nothing
but others
will hunt and kill for sport they'll
hunt and kill for fun because that's all
they know how to do that's all they
enjoy
they hunting meeting they have a very
you know they have very very limited
intellectual capacity
so this is
this is obviously taking the more uh i
know the less horrifying form of
policing as our example right this is
policing through deterrence or something
right the other form of policing that's
being entertained here absurdly and is
is now endorsed by vegan gains he
managed to get that vegan teacher to
congratulate go along with it but the
other four police used to actually
exterminate them because they refused to
live up to our to our human standards
our human values okay
so my point is this you know
when we decide that we are going to
police the muslim faith and by the way
there are plenty of forms of judaism and
christianity that are just as bad
i'm not joking in canada you can look at
the hutterites a lot of the kind of
extreme fundamentalist christian cults
frankly
let me say look
the majority has decided that we do not
like the fact that your women are being
raised without going to high school and
university and so on and i know it's
ridiculous because it's not compulsory
to go to university but we don't like
what you're doing the way you're raising
young women in this and we are actually
going to start passing laws and we're
going to break up your closed cult like
community you can imagine there are some
mormon groups that are like this too
because we really want these women to
have access to education and be a part
of society and all these and all these
different ways ultimately it's about
intellectual potential it's like look
you are depriving these women of the
life of the mind you're depriving them
of the full range of their of their
human nature their human capabilities
but that is the justification for what
is genuinely oppressive when you prevent
people from circumcising their own
children you're oppressing them you
prevent people from raising their own
sons and daughters the way they want to
with their own culture you're oppressing
them you're saying yes this oppression
is justified because we really believe
that you have other potential there's a
better life there's a more meaningful
life for you to live that you'd be
deprived of otherwise okay there is in
this way
no justification whatsoever for
civilized human beings to engage in
policing the wilderness policing sharks
policing leopards tigers lions right and
the lion has no other nature no higher
intellectual characteristics that i can
exercise uh develop or or ever even
imagine or aspire to
so guys i'll read your comments from my
perspective that's a wrap
it's simple like that's it we talked
about the stupidity and futility of
utilitarianism we talked about the
extent to which like this whole line of
philosophy is just a kind of
categorical error right you're thinking
about something in the wrong category
and then leads to
misapprentices and misunderstandings and
we talked about the extent to which the
fundamental problem is misperceiving
what's political as if it were natural
or scientific so
i'm done if you guys have questions if
you guys have objections there's
anything else you want to bring to it
let's hear it let's hear it you know
what i'm saying uh the the other
uh
you know kind of line of inquiry i
opened up here was for us to ask
ourselves just how stupid are these
people i'm sorry so i made a relatively
brief video i think it's under 10
minutes long
where i was really pointing the finger
at vegan gains and that vegan teacher
and we could point the finger in the
same way at gary yourofsky and many of
the others and we can really say how
stupid are these people really and to
what extent have we been kidding
ourselves to what extent have we been
you know in our own eyes making them
into uh
heroes uh you know making them into our
idols and just assuming they have some
tremendous uh depth of understanding
intelligence
uh etc just because they're charismatic
or funny or we have some reason to we
have some reason to admire them maybe
just we find them attractive or
something you know
so i mean that's i do feel that's
ultimately the question
um when these people show you
how
stupid they are
believe them you know i mean you have to
really take it seriously you have to
really take on board the full depth and
gravity and implications of the fact
that this person just told you that they
want to kill all of the lions on planet
earth all of the and it wouldn't end
there you'd have to kill all the
mosquitoes like think about this down to
the
microorganisms in the ocean you'd have
to kill all of the whales
whales eating zooplankton this is not
vegan i i don't know any creature in the
ocean that would be vegan enough to
satisfy this so you would wipe out all
life in the ocean why
for what benefit you know who cui bono
you know say in latin you know who who
would benefit from this you would
completely devastate the world's ecology
in the name of this
human-created abstract ideal now within
so so okay i'll give you guys another
quick example you may or may not
remember this but many years ago i had
another youtuber on my channel she's
someone who was inspired to start her
channel in the first place because of me
uh her name was mod vegan so mod vegan
with no space
mod vegan thought that human beings
should prevent bears from raping other
bears in the forest you know so bears
generalizing hashtag not all bears but
among bears generally speaking rape is
common and cannibalism is also common uh
lions too have a great deal of
cannibalism yeah
it's a dog-eat-dog world it's a very
bear world also okay so you have an idea
of human morality and like this is
specifically human sexuality and you
want to impose it on bears you want to
police
bears you want to police
the morality of bears the diet of bears
you're going to bring them into court
for murder i mean it's for some of us
it's just so self-evidently absurd but
do you have the vocabulary to reason
that through do you have the ability to
really explain to someone where it is
they're going wrong in applying this
this constant policing now by contrast
you can take these same ideas and use
them within the human sphere and you can
immediately see how meaningful and
important it is right
um why does it matter to police people
to make them vegan
everyone here has relatives melissa has
even talked about some of her relatives
you have relatives who've lived whose
lives have been destroyed by by meat and
dairy and eggs you have people who've
died people who are disabled of you know
mental as well as uh heart disabilities
with vascular disease it's so common so
you know the health argument alone
there's this card over that
cardiovascular kind of argument they
said what do you mean people's lives be
wrong and again the ultimate
justification of policing is human
potential it's a big difference dying at
age 55 versus age 75 that's it's a big
difference since they're probably your
most intelligent
years of your life you know no i want
you to live i want you to have a
meaningful life i want you to develop
your intellectual faculties and you know
do all kinds of meaningful things those
20 years instead of dying because you
eat cheeseburgers or because you eat
you know egg i don't know egg salad or
something
i don't know i don't know what people
you know
there's a very clear justification there
no that's the health argument which you
know for me
ultimately is kind of trivial because i
think the the i think the ethical
argument is so much more important and
because i think veganism is
fundamentally political anyway right
okay well this is what i'm asking you is
are we such bears
are we such lions are we such sharks are
we such alligators can't we do better
i want you to lead a more meaningful
life that way too and again i could say
reaching out across cultural barriers
and language barriers you know you could
reach out you can imagine if you're
talking to a traditional muslim family
who have never really thought about
veganism or vegetarianism it's not part
of their religious tradition in the same
way that like for buddhists they have an
idea about vegetarianism at least about
refusing to eat meat being morally
significant well look i i want you to
feel better than this i want you to be
superior to someone who just mindlessly
keeps on eating cheeseburgers because
their parents and grandparents ate
cheeseburgers i want you to be the kind
of person who's at the level of
intellectual sophistication and
detachment that you can make this
judgment decide this is the right thing
to do and then live by it hold yourself
to that higher standard i can't say that
to a literal shark i can't say that to a
to a literal anything can't say to an
ostrich either
sorry it's not just these big predators
the robin the robin plucks an earthworm
out of the ground hashtag not vegan you
you would literally eradicate every
robin every songbird every crow
you know you would kill every bird on
earth
because they would dare
to to pull a worm from the ground they
would dare to crush up a potato bug they
would they eat the insects out of the
air and off the ground you know so you
want to you want to commit genocide
against robbins we're not living up to
your standards
this is madness and again i've now given
you guys a one-hour lecture so you can
say something more sophisticated than
just saying this is madness it's madness
because you are policing them in a way
that that's irrelevant it's it's
ridiculous and and by contrast you have
to talk about what is the positive
justification for policing what is the
point of policing the point is i'm
policing you because i don't want you to
become a heroin addict i don't want you
to drop out of school and be
unemployable and whatever i don't want
all these terrible things that happen to
you and i'm i'm policing you in a sense
also i want you to be vegan i want you
to have this more uh sophisticated
morally responsible you know uh view of
life so it's still worth i am doing that
because of your positive potential when
you scale it up
r
positive potential all right afghanistan
could be a better country if they became
you know 90
atheist and 90
vegan you know these things are linked
in many ways if you could bring about
fundamental positive changes in their in
their attitudes and their level of
education and their outlook on life and
so on you could you could radically you
know improve life for everyone in that
society now how are you going to do it
you know obviously we've just seen a
20-year experiment asking the question
of can you oppress the people of
afghanistan into enlightenment and the
answer is george w bush can't
i think some other president frankly
could have done it i think a lot of this
has to be blamed on the unique stupidity
of two men george w bush and barack
obama well they didn't do it they failed
but you know uh
left to their own devices their their
culture is gonna go on they're gonna go
on oppressing themselves and they'll
present one another and oppressing women
and oppressing animals it's gonna go on
and on forever
and you know the point of policing in
this sense
you're the catcher the point is
ultimately is enlightenment is of
wanting people to live an enlightened
life and make enlightened choices and
become enlightened people become better
people that's why i'm telling you to not
smoke marijuana i want to tell you also
to not use
heroin cocaine fentanyl and innumerable
uh other drugs
but when we turn to
a robin
a penguin
it's meaningless there is just no sense
in which we can preach to the penguins
that they ought not to eat fish or
preach to the robin that ought not to
eat the earthworm and uh
you know
again so there there is neither a
hypothetical nor actual
uh better world that can ensue
thereafter uh because ultimately these
things are our intellectual nature okay
so melissa if you want to say something
you can i mean i'd say from my
perspective that's that's it it's mike
there's nothing else there's nothing
else to say on this and i
you know obviously this has been
explained in different terms uh with
different examples but i don't think my
position on this is played in any way it
has changed anyway since i first made a
video talking about it probably four
years ago i i think i was talking about
this in 2016. uh keep it real
hit it
okay it's not anything contrary to what
you said
however i was just thinking about the
woman that we saw
sitting outside the market today
that you had seen oh yeah on the street
a few years ago and now she was riding
around in a motor scooter this woman was
a self-evident drug addict that we saw
today and i she's someone i'd seen back
when she was capable of walking normally
and
with the progression of her drug
addiction she's been on these streets i
think for five years maybe four or four
years but i've seen her around for a few
years and she is withering away and is
now going around on a on a
government-provided motor scooter yeah
so it is not because you simply
despise people right being drug addicts
right because
right
right right that's right
right right right you take it for
granted every day that they aren't
sharks that they could read a book that
they could write a book but instead
they're drug addicts and they ride
around on a motor scooter right so i
have talked about that in other videos
in the past
but it's a good point what you're
getting at is the contrast between
animus as the justification for
legislation and positive human potential
now i normally i don't like to use the
word justify because it it's just too
vague
i prefer to say something like what is
the point of legislation right you can
make an argument that simply you have an
animus against something like the king
has decided he doesn't like tattoos so
he's going to forbid you from having
tattoos or the king has said nobody can
have tattoos until they're 30 years old
the things that have happened in human
history uh in japanese history they had
periods of time when in the capital city
everyone was getting tattoos and then
there was a new emperor and everyone was
forbidden to get there's nobody like
they they had uh they had
you know they swung through different
periods the way i know in korea you know
there's many many centuries men had
earrings that that expanded the earlobe
that stretched the and then there was a
new emperor who said no no more ear
piercings you know i think for men or
women but i forget maybe it was just for
men but you know that they were going to
eliminate europe so i mean sometimes as
trivial as those things are you know so
i mean one justif one way of looking at
the law is in terms of animus
and you know we could say well people
have an animus against uh muslims
wearing the headscarf and then that's
all it's just well the majority doesn't
like it so they're gonna eradicate it
well what i'm presenting here is a
fundamentally different approach to the
philosophy of law or you might call it
meta law the law of law you know what
what is my approach to meta law no
i think the point is ultimately positive
human potential so the the point isn't
just that i hate drug addicts it's not
that i hate you for being a drug it's
not that i hate the drug it's not that i
hate marijuana or hate heroin right it's
that i have an idea in my mind which may
be completely fictional it may be wrong
right this is politics like none of this
is science right i have an idea in my
mind that there is a better life for you
if you are deprived of heroin if you are
coerced into not using heroin of course
that could involve putting you in jail
putting you in a rehab program but
anyway it's illegal you are getting
arrested and your drug dealer is getting
arrested we are stopping you we're not
giving you the freedom to use everyone
because i have this idea that you could
be a better person without heroin and
ultimately you know getting involved
with the coercive eradication of
religion whether that is christianity or
buddhism or hinduism or otherwise you
know and sorry i i do think you know
we've been we've been alluding to it you
know arranged marriage is a huge one you
know well getting married at age 14
through an arranged marriage where you
didn't even choose the person you were
marrying i have an idea that this snuffs
out your intellectual potential and it's
my idea
somebody could find some example of
someone who had an arranged marriage
that worked out great oh and somebody
who had an arranged marriage at age 14
and it was so much better for them well
okay guess what i've got this idea and
i'm i'm coercively insisting on it we're
going to make arranged marriage illegal
and a marriage below a certain age is
illegal and getting a tattoo before
below a certain age illegal because we
have this idea of your of your positive
potential so yeah whether we're talking
about drug addiction
uh religion uh tattoos or any other
example this this still holds and yeah i
mean um anyway sorry we give this with
with prescription drugs uh so on and so
forth now i i'd also say i feel that
this has always been a difference
between me and other vegan activism
other forms of vegan activism
me the difference between myself and
other vegan activists is that actually
my form of veganism is based on a love
of all mankind it is actually based on a
positive love for humanity now the
biggest contrast of vegan gains who
identifies as a misanthrope and
sometimes describes himself as a
sociopath and so on and so forth he
openly says that he hates people and
many vegans do
many utilitarians do many anti-natalists
do and so on where they they hate human
nature they hate human beings but you
know what i'm saying is that this idea
of veganism is part of an idea of a
better life for you
even if you can't appreciate it because
the heroin addict
may not be able to appreciate how much
better their life will be with sobriety
even alcohol drinkers people who drink
alcohol and smoke marijuana just
casually they don't think they're
addicts they just people who smoke
marijuana and drink alcohol three days a
week friday saturday sunday they think
their lives are better with it and i'm
saying no no
i'm coercively telling you your life
will be better without a trust me
they can't trust you that's the only
life they know or that's the only life
they enjoy there are people in every
religion whether it's hinduism islam
christianity what have you you know
there are people who will say no this is
the good life this is what they enjoy
most about life this is the most
meaningful and important thing in their
life and i'm saying no there's a better
life for you and your children and
grandchildren and it's got to start
somewhere this is going to start 50
years from now it's going to start 500
years from now no it's going to start
today it's going to start with us making
it illegal for you to cut after take off
you know like we've we've actually got
to coercively uh start taking steps
toward progress but but yeah that is the
nature of the claim of people who are my
opponents
may not be able to see that it actually
comes from a place of love that it
really is a love for all mankind it's a
love for this positive human potential
which is primarily intellectual it's not
in my case it's not sensual it's not uh
truly hedonistic it's not really about
enjoyment of life in that sense
uh you know
i think it's ultimately about
understanding and learning for me what i
think is is good in life um
yeah you're going here yeah yeah great
stories of living in southeast asia
where you saw dogs
really smiling like really yes
because that yes can do something more
intellectually than dogs
what's interesting though is you've
actually closed the loop because you
brought us back to the first premise
about utilitarianism right which is that
life is not about minimizing suffering
and it's not about maximizing pleasure
either right but actually
having an aspiration to be better than a
mere dog
better than merely trying to minimize
your suffering and maximize your
enjoyment
that's what life's all about so yeah
that's also the most fundamental
difference or part of the most
fundamental difference that alienates me
from that whole utilitarian train of
thought
and then these other philosophies that
are one way or another folding
utilitarianism into the dough
all right
yeah it says someone here remembers when
i spoke to in mendom
so many years ago i feel i won that
debate let me tell you
yeah
yeah he ran
moon away
yeah who can who can forget
so that's good news from switzerland uh
do you want to give me lucas says quote
it seems that veganism is winning in
switzerland at the university vegan
meals have now become the default in the
cafeteria it's actually cheaper than
meat
it's something we always complain about
as vegans that we pay the same amount or
more for the vegan option in every
restaurant when it really should be
cheaper just on the basis of the cost of
the uh the ingredients
so someone says it would be great for a
bella ciel to directly talk to vegan
gains about this topic
let me explain you something about
boxing and debating okay these guys
they'll only debate people who are
stupider than themselves all right vegan
gains knows i'm smarter than he is he
knows it we spoke for years we've been
i've interviewed him there's evidence
anyone can see that he and i knew each
other for years okay vegan gains knows
me he knows i'm smarter than he is okay
vegan gains challenges everyone else to
a boxing match except me he challenges
everyone else to a debate except me okay
it's it's not an accident okay vegan
games will never
take me on all right never
uh i also have seen enough of his
debates to realize you know
just how boring it would be for everyone
including myself for me to to
interview or debate vegan gains it'll
just be a joke
but yeah no it's it's not a coincidence
that he doesn't act i mean
he's still rattling his cage demanding
to have uh
a debate with a natural vegan because
yeah he's aware a natural vegan is
stupider than he is so you know so we
can win or at least he can feel smart
even if she wins because i mean some of
his views are so impossible to support
you know
someone asked uh what are you sipping on
uh
which is a good question for me to end
on this is a vegan rehydration fluid
and i'm now assuming that i'm going to
hit the end of stream button i'm going
to go over to the gym do a whole bunch
of push-ups
which you do not need a gym to do
it's the one exercise you don't need a
gym for but i'm gonna go up and down the
gym anyway
all right guys great talking to you um
uh this has not really been a two-sided
argument this is a completely one-sided
trouncing of the uh of the other side's
position but i got one letter from one
supporter on patreon asking me to speak
on this and so we did
if you want to support the channel on
patreon your one dollar a month would be
appreciated and you know whatever don't
act like it's hard to find me